Conky script by Dragonias (http://yesthisisme.deviantart.com)

The thing on my desktop are actually 4 separate Conkys (sorry): the main
one with rings, and the 3 smaller ones: memory, CPU and notes. Use the
startconky.sh script to start them. Put it into your session's
application autostart to have them start automatically each time you log
in. Don't forget to make it executable (either right-click, Properties,
Permissions, Allow as executable/Allow as program, or in the terminal
chmod a+x startconky.sh).

Main conky: Requires clock_rings.lua to draw the clock and ring
stats. Put the lua script e.g. into ~/bin/conky/clock_rings.lua (where ~
is your home folder, and bin is supposed to be your personal folder for
scripts and such, and if you don't have it yet it is a good idea to
create it).  Also, the lines connecting the stat rings with their
descriptions/more detailed info (and the email icon on the right) are
actually drawn into the background, so you need to put them into
yours. Open your background in the GIMP, open also the lines.png file
that I've included, drag them (the layer) onto your background, and
position it to the *top left* corner. (You may want to remove the black
dots on the right used for email.) Save, set the new pic as your
wallpaper, and the main conky is done =)

Notes conky: This lists the content of file "~/notes.txt" (each line
with a blue X to make it look like a todo list) using the viewnotes.sh
script I included. All the script does is that it puts the blue X's at
the beginning of the line :D If you want to use it, put the script
somewhere like ~/bin/conky/viewnotes.sh and populate ~/notes.txt with
some intelligent remarks.

If you want a background terminal: install tilda using your package
manager, put the config_0 file into ~/.tilda/ and uncomment the "tilda"
line from the startconky.sh script.

That should be everything, let me know if I forgot anything! :D

Enjoy, experiment, share your results!
